# FlyWeight: Passenger weights, in the cloud

FlyWeight is a website where pilots can list flights they intend to take, and
where passengers can discreetly add their weights to those flights. Weights are
only shared with the pilot, not with other passengers, and are no longer
accessible some time after the flight is complete.

This website allows pilots to perform an accurate weight and balance while
giving passengers a basic assurance of privacy.

## Development

### Installation and Running

FlyWeight requires Ruby 3.3, PostgreSQL, and Redis. (If you use Homebrew,
you can install those dependencies with `brew install`.) After cloning the
repository, run `bundle install` to install all gem requirements. Run
`rails db:create db:migrate` to create the development database.

The Rails back-end is paired with a Vue.js front-end whose repository is hosted
at https://github.com/FlyWeight-org/Frontend. You must clone both repositories.

To run the server in development mode, you can create a `Procfile` with contents
such as:

```
backend: cd Backend && rvm 4.0.1@flyweight exec rails server
frontend: cd Frontend && yarn dev
jobs: cd Backend && rvm 4.0.1@flyweight exec bundle exec good_job start
anycable: cd Backend && rvm 4.0.1@flyweight exec anycable
ws: cd Backend && rvm 4.0.1@flyweight exec bin/anycable-go --port=8080
```

Install the `foreman` gem to run the Procfile.

#### Documentation

Comprehensive API documentation can be generated by running `rake yard`. HTML
docs are generated into the `doc/` directory.

#### Testing

Unit tests can be run with `rspec spec`. Unit tests and request tests are
provided.

End-to-end testing is documented in the readme for the front-end.

#### Deployment

The back-end and front-end are both deployed using Fly.io. A GitHub Action,
defined in the `deploy.yml` workflow, runs after CI is complete.

## Architecture

FlyWeight is a Ruby on Rails application with an independent Vue 3 front-end.

Only basic assurances of privacy are provided. Flights are only ever referenced
by a generated UUID, to prevent URL-crafting attacks. Pilots can only access
flights whose planned dates are at most one week old.

### Data Model

The account model on FlyWeight is called {Pilot}. Only Pilots are required to
have accounts; passengers can add their weights without logging in. {Pilot}s
create {Flight} records for each of their flights; then they or their passengers
can add {Load} records to those flights.

### Authorization

Authentication is handled by Devise. The {Pilot} class is the user model for
Devise, and users are authenticated by their email and password.

Passengers do not need to authenticate. They are provided with an unguessable
URL where they can add themselves to a flight. When a passenger re-enters their
information, any Load with a matching `slug` is updated.

### Controllers

Controllers serve exclusively JSON and are organized in a RESTful,
resource-oriented manner.

The root path `/` is a redirect to the front-end URL.
